Steganography is a technique that hides confidential data in common non-confidential files or messages to avoid detection. Then the secret data is extracted at the destination. The use of steganography can be combined with encryption as an additional step to hide or protect
the data. The word steganography comes from the Greek words steganos (meaning hidden or covered) and the Greek word root graph (meaning to write).
In modern digital steganography, data is first encrypted or obfuscated in some other way and then inserted, using a special algorithm, into data that is part of a particular file format such as a JPEG image, audio, or video file. When this is done, anyone viewing the image file should not be able to see a difference between the original image file and the encrypted file; this is accomplished by storing the message with less significant bites in the data file. By applying the encrypted data to this redundant data in some inconspicuous way, the result will be an image file that appears identical to the original image but that has "noise" patterns of regular, unencrypted data. While there are many different uses of steganography, including embedding sensitive information into file types, one of the most common techniques is to embed a text file into an image file. One technique is to hide data in bits that represent the same color pixels repeated in a row in an image file.
The primary advantage of using steganography to hide data over encryption is that it helps obscure the fact that there is sensitive data hidden in the file or other content carrying the hidden text. If steganographically-hidden data is also encrypted, the data may still be safe from detection -- through the channel will no longer be safe from detection. Whereas an encrypted file, message, or network packet payload is marked and identifiable as such, using steganographic techniques helps to obscure the presence of the secure channel. As the name suggests, Image Steganography refers to the process of hiding data within an
image file. The image selected for this purpose is called the cover image and the image obtained after steganography is called the stego image. The images are represented in memory grayscale (for grays scale images) or N * M * 3 (for color images) matrix, with each entry representing the intensity value of the pixel. Image steganography embeds a message in an image by changing the values of some pixels selected by the encryption algorithm. The recipient of the image needs to know the same algorithm to know which pixels need to be selected to extract the message.
